1. Clin Med (Lond). 2019 Mar;19(2):169-176. doi: 10.7861/clinmedicine.19-2-169.

Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorders.

Huda S(1), Whittam D(2), Bhojak M(2), Chamberlain J(3), Noonan C(2), Jacob 
A(2)(2).

Author information:
(1)Walton Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK shuda@nhs.net.
(2)Walton Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Liverpool, UK.
(3)Ipsen, Wrexham, UK.

Neuromyelitis optica spectrum disorder (NMOSD) is an uncommon antibody-mediated 
disease of the central nervous system. Long segments of spinal cord inflammation 
(myelitis), severe optic neuritis, and/or bouts of intractable vomiting and 
hiccoughs (area postrema syndrome) are classic presentations of the disease and 
may alert the clinician to the diagnosis. Untreated, approximately 50% of NMOSD 
patients will be wheelchair users and blind, and a third will have died within 5 
years of their first attack. Unlike multiple sclerosis, a progressive clinical 
course is very unusual and the accrual of disability is related to relapses. 
Approximately 75% of patients have antibodies against aquaporin-4, a water 
channel expressed on astrocytes. Relapses are treated aggressively to prevent 
residual disability with high-dose steroids and often plasma exchange. Relapse 
prevention is crucial and achieved with long-term immunosuppression. In this 
article we review the pathogenesis, clinical features, diagnosis and management 
of NMOSD.

© Royal College of Physicians 2019. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7861/clinmedicine.19-2-169
PMCID: PMC6454358
PMID: 30872305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Clin Exp Dermatol. 2019 Jul;44(5):477-482. doi: 10.1111/ced.13891. Epub 2019 Jan 
4.

Review of primary and secondary erythromelalgia.

Mann N(1), King T(1), Murphy R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Royal Hallamshire Hospital, Sheffield, UK.

Erythromelalgia is a condition characterized by episodic pain, erythema and 
temperature of the extremities, which is relieved by cooling and aggravated by 
warming. It is useful to review this topic in light of recent discoveries of the 
genetic mutations that now define primary erythromelalgia, as opposed to 
secondary erythromelalgia, which is often associated with underlying medical 
disorders.

© 2019 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/ced.13891
PMID: 30609105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Rom J Ophthalmol. 2019 Jan-Mar;63(1):15-22.

Corneal neovascularization: updates on pathophysiology, investigations & 
management.

Sharif Z(1), Sharif W(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Royal Wolverhampton NHS Trust, Wolverhampton, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Jordan Hospital, University of 
Jordan, Amman, Jordan.

Objective. Corneal neovascularization is a sight-threatening condition affecting 
more than 1.4 million people per year. Left untreated, it can lead to tissue 
scarring, oedema, lipid deposition, and persistent inflammation that may 
significantly affect visual prognosis and quality of life. The aim was to review 
the recent evidence relating to the pathophysiology, investigations and 
management of corneal neovascularization. Methods. Literature review of 
prospective and retrospective studies, clinical trials and animal models 
relating to the pathophysiology, investigation and management of corneal 
neovascularization. Results. Corneal neovascularization is characterized by the 
invasion of new blood vessels into the cornea caused by an imbalance between 
angiogenic and antiangiogenic factors that preserve corneal transparency as a 
result of various ocular insults and hypoxic injuries. Risk factors that have 
been implicated in the pathogenesis of the disease include contact lens wear, 
ocular surface disease, trauma, previous surgery and herpes. The results 
highlighted the current and future management modalities of corneal 
neovascularization, which includes corneal transplantation, laser - 
phototherapy, injections and topical treatment. Conclusion. The future of 
corneal neovascularization is promising and this paper discusses the upcoming 
revolution in local gene therapy. Abbreviations. HSK = herpes stromal keratitis, 
VEGF = vascular endothelial growth factor, VEGFR-1 = VEGF Receptor-1, FGF = 
Fibroblast growth factor, PDGF = Platelet-derived growth factor, IL-6 = 
interleukin-6, IL-7 = interleukin-7, IL-8 = interleukin-8, IRS-1 = insulin 
receptor substrate-1.

PMCID: PMC6531773
PMID: 31198893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Chin Clin Oncol. 2019 Feb;8(1):7. doi: 10.21037/cco.2018.11.03. Epub 2018 Nov 
28.

Update on skin directed therapies in mycosis fungoides.

Lovgren ML(1), Scarisbrick JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(2)Department of Dermatology, University Hospital Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. 
jscarisbrick@nhs.net.

Mycosis fungoides (MF) represents the majority of the primary cutaneous T-cell 
lymphomas (CTCL). Most have early stage MF with localised patches and plaques, 
which has a favourable survival outcome, but nearly a quarter progress to late 
stage with tumours, erythroderma, and systemic involvement. Management is based 
on stage directed treatment with early stage MF (IA-IIA) using skin directed 
therapies (SDTs), including topical corticosteroids (TCS), chlormethine or 
retinoids, phototherapy, and radiotherapy (localised or total skin electron beam 
therapy). Advanced stages (IIB-IVB) or refractory MF often requires systemic 
treatments which may be used in combination with SDTs. These are primarily 
employed as a palliative approach, aiming to provide symptomatic relief. For 
advanced patients achieving a complete or near complete response (CR) with a 
good performance status may be considered for allogeneic bone marrow 
transplantation. This paper reviews the different SDT modalities and their 
efficacy in MF management.

DOI: 10.21037/cco.2018.11.03
PMID: 30525757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. World Neurosurg. 2019 Mar;123:8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2018.11.176. Epub 2018 
Nov 27.

Decompressive Hemicraniectomy in the Treatment of Malignant Middle Cerebral 
Artery Infarction: A Meta-Analysis.

Das S(1), Mitchell P(2), Ross N(2), Whitfield PC(3).

Author information:
(1)Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK. Electronic address: 
suparna.das1@nhs.net.
(2)Royal Victoria Infirmary, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, UK.
(3)Derriford Hospital, Plymouth, UK.

BACKGROUND: Malignant middle cerebral artery infarctions are large 
space-occupying infarctions involving massive edema, herniation, and frequently 
death. Survivors are disabled. Management involves medical treatment, with or 
without decompressive hemicraniectomy and later duraplasty. This meta-analysis 
aimed to determine whether surgery is worthwhile with particular regard to views 
on quality of life of professionals and patients.
METHODS: A Medline search was performed with the search terms "decompressive 
surgery," "craniectomy," "hemicraniectomy," "decompressive hemicraniectomy," and 
"middle cerebral artery," "MCA," "infarct,*" "stroke,*" "embolus," "emboli," 
"thrombosis," "occlusion," "infarction," and "middle cerebral artery stroke," A 
second search was also done for views on postoperative quality of life. Studies 
retrieved were randomized controlled trials, observational studies, and reviews. 
We compared patients who received only medical treatment with those who had 
decompressive surgery. Participants were adult patients presenting with 
malignant middle cerebral artery infarction.
RESULTS: 270 abstracts were reviewed. 40 articles were identified: 8 randomized 
controlled trials and 4 observational studies. There were a total of 692 
patients: 268 surgical and 424 medical. The 2 groups were comparable, with 
similar demographics. In most trials, mortality was lower with surgery. However, 
morbidity tended to be higher, particularly in the elderly population. Morbidity 
was lower with medical treatment. Twelve articles on postoperative quality of 
life were reviewed; views differed between professionals, and survivors and 
caregivers. A patient-level comparison could not be made between all studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgical decompression results in lowered mortality but high 
morbidity, especially in the elderly. There is an increase in Quality Adjusted 
Life Years but at high costs. Professionals think that surgery is not worth the 
high disability rate. However, patients and caregivers are satisfied with their 
postoperative quality of life. Survey data from healthy study participants who 
are not professionals in stroke care were not available. The decision to treat 
surgically needs to be decided on an individual basis.

Crown Copyright © 2018. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2018.11.176
PMID: 30500591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

